Publish `convert` command and add new documentation page (#700)
xataio/pgroll: docs/cli/convert.mdx

---
title: Convert
description: Convert SQL migration files to a pgroll migration
---

## Command

```
$ pgroll convert --name 01_create_first_table /path/to/migration.sql
```

This reads the SQL statements from `/path/to/migration.sql` and translates them into a `pgroll` migration. The name of the migration will be `01_create_first_table`.

### Read SQL statements from stdin

If a file name is not specified `pgroll convert` reads the SQL statements from stdin.

```

> $ cat 'CREATE TABLE my_table(name text);' | pgroll convert --name create_first_table

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ cat 'CREATE TABLE my_table(name text);' | pgroll convert --name 01_create_first_table
```

---
title: Convert
description: Convert SQL migration files to a pgroll migration
---

## Command

```

> $ pgroll convert --name create_first_table /path/to/migration.sql

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ pgroll convert --name 01_create_first_table /path/to/migration.sql
```

```

This reads the SQL statements from `/path/to/migration.sql` and translates them into a `pgroll` migration.

> The name of the migration is going to be `create_first_table`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The name of the migration will be `01_create_first_table`.
```

> The name of the migration is going to be `create_first_table`.

Reviewer: I think we shouldn't use hard line breaks in `mdx`? I'd put this on the line above.

> ### Read SQL statements from stdin with `pgroll convert`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Read SQL statements from stdin
```

> If file name is not specified `pgroll convert` reads the SQL statements from stdin.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a file name is not specified `pgroll convert` reads the SQL statements from stdin.
```

```
$ cat 'CREATE TABLE my_table(name text);' | pgroll convert --name create_first_table
```

<Warning>
The generated pgroll migrations might include `up` and `down` migrations. Those must be filled in manually because

> right now pgroll cannot guess the correct up and down migrations.

Reviewer: no need for the line break.

Might read better as:

```
The generated `pgroll` migrations might include `up` and `down` data migrations. Those must be filled in manually because currently `pgroll` is unable to infer correct up and down migrations.
```
